dba.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: For the Database Analyst
---

## For the Database Analyst - Operationalize with SQL
------------------------------

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="toc">
            <li><a href="#system-requirements">System Requirements</a></li>
            <li><a href="#workflow-automation">Workflow Automation</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step0">Step 0: Creating Tables</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step1">Step 1: Pre-Processing and Cleaning</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step2">Step 2: Feature Engineering</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3a">Step 3a: Splitting the data set</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3br">Step 3b: Training </a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3cr">Step 3c: Testing </a></li>
            <li><a href="#stepd">Step 3d: Evaluating</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step4">Step 4: The Production Pipeline</a></li>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
      As businesses are starting to acknowledge the power of data, leveraging machine learning techniques to grow has become a must. In order for hospitals to optimize resource allocation, it is important to predict accurately how long a newly admitted patient will stay in the hospital.
          </div>
</div>

Among the key variables to learn from data are number of previous admissions as well as various diagnostic codes and lab results.  (View the [full data set description.](input_data.html) )


For businesses that prefer an on-prem solution, the implementation with SQL Server R Services is a great option, which takes advantage of the power of SQL Server and RevoScaleR (Microsoft R Server). In this template, we implemented all steps in SQL stored procedures: data preprocessing, and feature engineering are implemented in pure SQL, while data cleaning, and the model training, scoring and evaluation steps are implemented with SQL stored procedures calling R (Microsoft R Server) code. 

All the steps can be executed on SQL Server client environment (SQL Server Management Studio). We provide a Windows PowerShell script which invokes the SQL scripts and demonstrates the end-to-end modeling process.

## System Requirements
-----------------------

To run the scripts requires the following:

 * SQL server 2016 with Microsoft R Server  (version 9.0.1) installed and configured;
 * The SQL user name and password, and the user is configured properly to execute R scripts in-memory;
 * SQL Database for which the user has write permission and can execute stored procedures;
 * For more information about SQL server 2016 and R service, please visit: [What's New in SQL Server R Services](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/mt604847.aspx)


## Workflow Automation
-------------------
Follow the [PowerShell instructions](Powershell_Instructions.html) to execute all the scripts described below.  [Click here](tables.html) to view the details all tables created in this solution.

 
<a name="step0"></a>

#### Step 0: Creating Tables
-------------------------

The data set **LengthOfStay.csv** is provided in the Data directory.

In this step, we create a table `LengthOfStay` in a SQL Server database, and the data is uploaded to these tables using bcp command in PowerShell. This is done through either **load_data.ps1** or through running the beginning of **Length_Of_Stay.ps1**. 

### Input:

* Raw data: **LengthOfStay.csv**

### Output:

* 1 Table filled with the raw data: `LengthOfStay` (filled through PowerShell).

### Related files:
* **step0_create_tables.sql**


<a name="step1"></a>

## Step 1: Pre-Processing and Cleaning
-------------------------

In this step, the raw data is cleaned in-place. This assumes that the ID variable (`eid`) does not contain blanks. 
There are two ways to replace missing values:

* The first provided stored procedure, `[fill_NA_explicit]`, will replace the missing values with "missing" (character variables) or -1 (numeric variables). It should be used if it is important to know where the missing values were.

* The second stored procedure, `[fill_NA_mode_mean]`, will replace the missing values with the mode (categorical variables) or mean (float variables).

If running the stored procedures yourself, or if running **Length_Of_Stay.ps1** with `uninterrupted = "N"`, you will have the opportunity to choose between the two stored procedures. 
If running **Length_Of_Stay.ps1** with `uninterrupted = "Y"`, [`fill_NA_mode_mean`] will be automatically used.

### Input:
* 1 Table filled with the raw data: `LengthOfStay` (filled through PowerShell).

### Output:
* The same table, with missing values replaced.

### Related files:
* **step1_data_processing.sql**

<a name="step2"></a>

## Step 2: Feature Engineering
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[feature_engineering]` that designs new features:  

* The continuous laboratory measurements (e.g. hemo, `hematocritic`, `sodium`, `glucose` etc.) are standardized: we substract the mean and divide by the standard deviation. 
* `number_of_issues`: the total number of preidentified medical conditions.

### Input:

* `LengthOfStay` table.

### Output:

* `LoS` table containing new features.

### Related files:

* **step2_feature_engineering.sql**

<a name="step3a"></a>

## Step 3a: Splitting the data set
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[splitting]` that splits the data into a training set and a testing set. The user has to specify a splitting percentage. For example, if the splitting percentage is 70, 70% of the data will be put in the training set, while the other 30% will be assigned to the testing set. The `eid` that will end in the training set, are stored in the table `Train_Id`.


### Input:

* `LoS` table.

### Output:

* `Train_Id` table containing the eid that will end in the training set.

### Related files:

* **step3a_splitting.sql**



## Step 3b: Training
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure [dbo].[train_model] that trains a regression Random Forest (rxDForest implementation)  on the training set. The trained models are serialized then stored in a table called “Models”. 


### Input:

* `LoS` and `Train_Id` tables.

### Output:

* `Models` table containing the regression RF trained models. 

### Related files:

* **step3b_training.sql**


<a name="step3cr"></a>

## Step 3c: Scoring
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure [dbo].[score] that scores a trained model on the testing set. The Predictions are stored in a SQL table.


### Input:

`LoS`,`Train_Id`, and `Models` tables.

### Output:

Table(s) storing the predictions from the tested model(s).

### Related files:

**step3c_scoring.sql**

<a name="step3d"></a>

## Step 3d: Evaluating
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[evaluate]` that computes regression performance metrics written in `Metrics`.

### Input:

Table(s) storing the predictions from the tested model(s).

### Output:

`Metrics` table containing the performance metrics of the model(s).

### Related files:

**step3d_evaluating.sql** 
Finally, a table `LoS_Predictions` stores data from the testing set as well as predicted discharge dates from the rxFastTrees model, and will be used for PowerBI. The stored procedure that creates it can be found in the **step4_full_table.sql** file.

<a name="step4"></a>

## Step 4: The Production Pipeline 
-------------------------------------

In the Production pipeline, the data from the file **LengthOfStay_Prod.csv** is uploaded through PowerShell to the `LengthOfStay_Prod` table. The tables `Stats`, `ColInfo` and `Models`, created during the development pipeline are then moved to the Production database through the stored procedure `[dbo].[copy_modeling_tables]` located in the file **create_tables_prod.sql** .

`LengthOfStay_Prod` is then cleaned as in Step 1, and a feature engineered view is created as in Step 2 (both using the Stats table). Finally, the view is scored on the model(s) stored in the Models table, using the `ColInfo` table information. The predictions are stored in a SQL table.

Commit message:

Add Python to solution (#8)
* adding python

* updates

* remove extraneous info

dba.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: For the Database Analyst
---

## For the Database Analyst - Operationalize with SQL
------------------------------

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6">
        <div class="toc">
            <li><a href="#system-requirements">System Requirements</a></li>
            <li><a href="#workflow-automation">Workflow Automation</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step0">Step 0: Creating Tables</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step1">Step 1: Pre-Processing and Cleaning</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step2">Step 2: Feature Engineering</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3a">Step 3a: Splitting the data set</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3br">Step 3b: Training </a></li>
            <li><a href="#step3cr">Step 3c: Testing </a></li>
            <li><a href="#stepd">Step 3d: Evaluating</a></li>
            <li><a href="#step4">Step 4: The Production Pipeline</a></li>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-md-6">
      As businesses are starting to acknowledge the power of data, leveraging machine learning techniques to grow has become a must. In order for hospitals to optimize resource allocation, it is important to predict accurately how long a newly admitted patient will stay in the hospital.
          </div>
</div>

Among the key variables to learn from data are number of previous admissions as well as various diagnostic codes and lab results.  (View the [full data set description.](input_data.html) )


For businesses that prefer an on-prem solution, the implementation with Microsoft Machine Learning Services is a great option, which takes advantage of the power of SQL Server and RevoScaleR (Microsoft R Server). In this template, we implemented all steps in SQL stored procedures: data preprocessing, and feature engineering are implemented in pure SQL, while data cleaning, and the model training, scoring and evaluation steps are implemented with SQL stored procedures calling R (Microsoft R Server) code. 

All the steps can be executed on SQL Server client environment (SQL Server Management Studio). We provide a Windows PowerShell script which invokes the SQL scripts and demonstrates the end-to-end modeling process.

## System Requirements
-----------------------

    {% include requirements.md %}


## Workflow Automation
-------------------
Follow the [PowerShell instructions](Powershell_Instructions.html) to execute all the scripts described below.  [Click here](tables.html) to view the details all tables created in this solution.

The steps below describe the R solution (found in the `{{ site.db_name }}_R` database) and the Python solution (found in the `{{ site.db_name }}_Py` database). 

 
<a name="step0"></a>

#### Step 0: Creating Tables
-------------------------

The data set **LengthOfStay.csv** is provided in the Data directory.

In this step, we create a table `LengthOfStay` in a SQL Server database, and the data is uploaded to these tables using bcp command in PowerShell. This is done through either **load_data.ps1** or through running the beginning of **Length_Of_Stay.ps1**. 

### Input:

* Raw data: **LengthOfStay.csv**

### Output:

* 1 Table filled with the raw data: `LengthOfStay` (filled through PowerShell).

### Related files:
* **step0_create_tables.sql**


<a name="step1"></a>

## Step 1: Pre-Processing and Cleaning
-------------------------

In this step, the raw data is cleaned in-place. This assumes that the ID variable (`eid`) does not contain blanks. 
There are two ways to replace missing values:

* The first provided stored procedure, `[fill_NA_explicit]`, will replace the missing values with "missing" (character variables) or -1 (numeric variables). It should be used if it is important to know where the missing values were.

* The second stored procedure, `[fill_NA_mode_mean]`, will replace the missing values with the mode (categorical variables) or mean (float variables).

If running the stored procedures yourself you will have the opportunity to choose between the two stored procedures. 
During the initial deployment [`fill_NA_mode_mean`] will be automatically used.

### Input:
* 1 Table filled with the raw data: `LengthOfStay` (filled through PowerShell).

### Output:
* The same table, with missing values replaced.

### Related files:
* **step1_data_processing.sql**

<a name="step2"></a>

## Step 2: Feature Engineering
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[feature_engineering]` that designs new features:  

* The continuous laboratory measurements (e.g. hemo, `hematocritic`, `sodium`, `glucose` etc.) are standardized: we substract the mean and divide by the standard deviation. 
* `number_of_issues`: the total number of preidentified medical conditions.

### Input:

* `LengthOfStay` table.

### Output:

* `LoS` table containing new features.

### Related files:

* **step2_feature_engineering.sql**

<a name="step3a"></a>

## Step 3a: Splitting the data set
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[splitting]` that splits the data into a training set and a testing set. The user has to specify a splitting percentage. For example, if the splitting percentage is 70, 70% of the data will be put in the training set, while the other 30% will be assigned to the testing set. The `eid` that will end in the training set, are stored in the table `Train_Id`.


### Input:

* `LoS` table.

### Output:

* `Train_Id` table containing the eid that will end in the training set.

### Related files:

* **step3a_splitting.sql**



## Step 3b: Training
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure [dbo].[train_model] that trains a regression Random Forest (rxDForest implementation)  on the training set. The trained models are serialized then stored in a table called “Models”. 


### Input:

* `LoS` and `Train_Id` tables.

### Output:

* `Models` table containing the regression RF trained models. 

### Related files:

* **step3b_training.sql**


<a name="step3cr"></a>

## Step 3c: Scoring
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure [dbo].[score] that scores a trained model on the testing set. The Predictions are stored in a SQL table.


### Input:

`LoS`,`Train_Id`, and `Models` tables.

### Output:

Table(s) storing the predictions from the tested model(s).

### Related files:

**step3c_scoring.sql**

<a name="step3d"></a>

## Step 3d: Evaluating
-------------------------

In this step, we create a stored procedure `[dbo].[evaluate]` that computes regression performance metrics written in `Metrics`.

### Input:

Table(s) storing the predictions from the tested model(s).

### Output:

`Metrics` table containing the performance metrics of the model(s).

### Related files:

**step3d_evaluating.sql** 
Finally, a table `LoS_Predictions` stores data from the testing set as well as predicted discharge dates from the rxFastTrees model, and will be used for PowerBI. The stored procedure that creates it can be found in the **step4_full_table.sql** file.

<a name="step4"></a>

## Step 4: The Production Pipeline 
-------------------------------------

The stored procedure `prod_lengthofstay` can be used to score new data during production.  To run this with the sample production data you can execute this procdure as follows:

    USE [Hospital_R]
    GO

    DECLARE	@return_value int

    EXEC	@return_value = [dbo].[prod_lengthofstay]
            @input = N'LengthOfStay_Prod',
            @dev_db = N'Hospital_R'

    SELECT	'Return Value' = @return_value

    GO

`LengthOfStay_Prod` is then cleaned as in Step 1, and a feature engineered view is created as in Step 2 (both using the Stats table). Finally, the view is scored on the model(s) stored in the Models table, using the `ColInfo` table information. The predictions are stored in a SQL table.
