jupyter.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Using a Jupyter Notebook
---
## Using a Jupyter Notebook

You can view and execute the R code for this solution in a Jupyter Notebook on the VM by following these instructions. 

## Set Password and Start

On the VM desktop, you will see an icon "Jupyter Set Password...".  Double click this icon and follow the prompts to create a password and then start the Jupyter server.  

HINT: If the window is too small, click on the icon on the upper left corner and use the Properties dialog to enlarge the font size.
       
## Access Jupyter

Once the server is running, open the Mozilla Firefox web browser.  Type the following into the address bar to access Jupyter: 

    https://localhost:9999

You will get a security warning, hit the "Advanced" button and add this to your exceptions to access the Jupyter session.

 There are a number of samples available on the VM server.  You can add the **{{ site.jupyter_name }}** by moving or copying it from **Desktop/{{ site.folder_name }}/R** into **C:/`vmname`/notebooks** (for example, if your VM name is "dsvm" the path is **C:/dsvm/notebooks**).  

 Once the Jupyter server is running on your VM, you can also connect to it from another computer by using the Public IP address in the url:

    https://ipaddress:9999
        
The ipaddress can be found in the Azure Portal under the "Network interfaces" section - use the Public IP Address.##

## Using Jupyter

To execute the code in a cell, ` Shift+Enter` when your cursor is in the cell.  Some of the cells may take a minute or two to work, and must be complete before the next cell can execute.  You can also select the Cell>Run All menu item to execute the entire notebook.


<a href="CIG_Workflow.html#step2">Return to Typical Workflow for Cortana Intelligence Gallery Deployment<a>

Commit message:

Gh pages dev (#6)
* DEV GH pages

* Remove Rdemo

* Updating Instructions

* update path in image

* remove include

* minor wording changes

* update formatting

jupyter.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Using a Jupyter Notebook
---
## Using a Jupyter Notebook

You can view and execute the R code for this solution in a Jupyter Notebook on the VM by following these instructions. 

## Set Password and Start

On the VM desktop, you will see an icon "Jupyter Set Password...".  Double click this icon and follow the prompts to create a password and then start the Jupyter server.  

HINT: If the window is too small, click on the icon on the upper left corner and use the Properties dialog to enlarge the font size.
       
## Access Jupyter

Once the server is running, open the Mozilla Firefox web browser.  Type the following into the address bar to access Jupyter: 

    https://localhost:9999

You will get a security warning, hit the "Advanced" button and add this to your exceptions to access the Jupyter session.

 There are a number of samples available on the VM server along with the **Hospital_Length_Of_Stay_Notebook**. 


 Once the Jupyter server is running on your VM, you can also connect to it from another computer by first opening the firewall: 

    netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Jupyter" dir=in action=allow protocol=tcp localport=9999


 and then using the Public IP address in the url:

    https://ipaddress:9999
        
The ipaddress can be found in the Azure Portal under the "Network interfaces" section - use the Public IP Address.

## Using Jupyter

To execute the code in a cell, `Shift+Enter` when your cursor is in the cell.  Some of the cells may take a minute or two to work, and must be complete before the next cell can execute.  You can also select the `Cell>Run All` menu item to execute the entire notebook.


<a href="CIG_Workflow.html#step2">Return to Typical Workflow for Cortana Intelligence Gallery Deployment<a>
